
⛔️ **Instead of doing this:**

```Java
if (myCollection.size() == 0) {  // might introduce bugs!

  /* ... */
}
```


✅ **Do this:**
```Java
if (myCollection.isEmpty()) { // *perfect* 👌

  /* ... */
}
```

While `Collection.size() == 0` might work, there is a coding convention to use `Collection.isEmpty()`. It makes your code more readable and reduces the possibility of unwanted side effects. I have provided some notes on readability and complexity for you!

<details>
   <summary>📚 Readability 101 </summary> 

This concept refers to how easy your code is to read. Readability concern topics ranging from the name of variables and methods to documentation. In this case, calling the method `.isEmpty()` will set a clear message about your intention. Checking the size of your list might lead to confusion when an outside programmer reads your code. It could also be prone to errors.

Becoming a professional programmer involves courtesy, so writing clear and understandable code should always be on top of your mind!
</details>

<details>
  <summary>📚 About complexity </summary> 

Complexity is the number of operations performed by your code. The more operations, the higher complexity of your code. A code with high complexity requires more resources from your computer. Checking if your list is empty should require at most one operation. You risk having more operations when you use the `.size()` method. 
  </summary>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>❓ Curious fact </summary> 

When concatenating strings, you can use the `+` operator:

```java
String s = "Hello" + "World";
>>> "HelloWorld"
```

 However, this is not the most efficient way to do it. The `StringBuilder` class has a method called `append()` that is more efficient:

 ```java
StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
sb.append("Hello");
sb.append("World");
String s = sb.toString();
```

This is because the `StringBuilder` class is mutable, meaning that it can be changed after it is created. The `+` operator creates a new string every time it is used, which is inefficient. Which do you think is more readable?

</details>

I hope you learned something from my message 😄 Remember, *put an educational quote here*. 

<details>
  <summary> Why am I receiving this? </summary>

  Link to repo README.me that explains what and why. 
</details>

